Clarify Fleet Server connectivity requirement in the “Remote Elasticsearch output” doc (#5108)
elastic/docs-content: reference/fleet/remote-elasticsearch-output.md

A remote {{es}} cluster supports the same [output settings](/reference/fleet/es-output-settings.md) as your management {{es}} cluster.

## Limitations [remote-output-limitations]

These limitations apply to remote {{es}} output:

> * At least one {{fleet-server}} must be able to reach the remote {{es}} cluster with a service token to generate API keys for the {{agents}} that use the remote output for data ingestion.

Reviewer: All need to be able to reach, otherwise a request could be routed to one that cannot and that will fail. There is no internal routing that knows which one can access and which one cannot. So they all must be able to reach the remote ES cluster.

> * {{fleet-server}} must be able to reach the remote {{es}} cluster with a service token to generate API keys for the {{agents}} that use the remote output for data ingestion. This connectivity is mandatory even though {{fleet-server}} itself does not send data through the remote output.

Author: @blakerouse could you please verify this statement? Thanks!

:::

:::{note}
To prevent unauthorized access, the {{es}} service token is stored as a secret value. While secret storage is recommended, you can choose to override this setting, and store the password as plain text in the agent policy definition. Secret storage requires {{fleet-server}} version 8.12 or later. This setting can also be stored as a secret value or as plain text for preconfigured outputs. To learn more about this option, check [Preconfiguration settings](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/fleet-settings.md#_preconfiguration_settings_for_advanced_use_cases).
:::
:::::

:::::{step} Configure SSL certificate authorities (optional)

Configure SSL certificate authorities if the remote {{es}} cluster uses certificates that are not publicly trusted. The certificate authority (CA) is used to sign the remote {{es}} cluster's SSL certificate. This allows {{fleet-server}} to validate the remote cluster's certificate.

::::{applies-switch}

:::{applies-item} stack: ga 9.1

> Expand the **Authentication** section, then paste the certificate content into the **Server SSL certificate authorities** field.

Reviewer 2: The new UI also allows to configure a path instead of the `content` of the CA. I mention it because you are mentioning it in all other places with `alternatively, ....`.

:::

:::{note}

> To prevent unauthorized access, the {{es}} service token is stored as a secret value. While secret storage is recommended, you can choose to override this setting, and store the password as plain text in the agent policy definition. Secret storage requires {{fleet-server}} version 8.12 or later. This setting can also be stored as a secret value or as plain text for preconfigured outputs. To learn more about this option, check [Preconfiguration settings](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/fleet-settings.md#_preconfiguration_settings_for_advanced_use_cases).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prevent unauthorized access, the {{es}} service token is stored as a secret value. While secret storage is recommended, you can override this setting and store the password as plain text in the agent policy definition. Secret storage requires {{fleet-server}} version 8.12 or later. This setting can also be stored as a secret value or as plain text for preconfigured outputs. To learn more about this option, check [Preconfiguration settings](kibana://reference/configuration-reference/fleet-settings.md#_preconfiguration_settings_for_advanced_use_cases).
```

If you choose not to synchronize integrations automatically, you need to make sure that for any integrations that are [added to your {{agent}} policy](/reference/fleet/add-integration-to-policy.md), the integration assets are also installed on the remote {{es}} cluster. For detailed steps on this process, refer to [Install and uninstall {{agent}} integration assets](/reference/fleet/install-uninstall-integration-assets.md).

> ## Remote output health status [remote-output-health-status]

Reviewer: This is correct.

If you choose not to synchronize integrations automatically, you need to make sure that for any integrations that are [added to your {{agent}} policy](/reference/fleet/add-integration-to-policy.md), the integration assets are also installed on the remote {{es}} cluster. For detailed steps on this process, refer to [Install and uninstall {{agent}} integration assets](/reference/fleet/install-uninstall-integration-assets.md).

## Remote output health status [remote-output-health-status]

{{fleet-server}} requires connectivity to the remote cluster to generate API keys for {{agents}}. When you use a remote {{es}} output, {{fleet-server}} tests whether it can reach the remote cluster. The result determines whether the remote output is reported as healthy or unhealthy in the **Status** column for the output on the **{{fleet}}** → **Settings** page.

> If you have multiple {{fleet-server}} instances, each {{fleet-server}} tests connectivity to all remote {{es}} outputs. If the {{fleet-server}} instances have different network scopes, it's expected that some of them might not be able to reach a certain remote output. In this case, the remote output will show as unhealthy in the UI with an `Unable to connect` error. You can ignore this status as long as the {{fleet-server}} instance that manages the {{agents}} using that remote output has connectivity to the remote cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have multiple {{fleet-server}} instances, each {{fleet-server}} tests connectivity to all remote {{es}} outputs. If the {{fleet-server}} instances have different network scopes, some of them might not be able to reach a certain remote output. In this case, the remote output will display as unhealthy in the UI with an `Unable to connect` error. You can ignore this status as long as the {{fleet-server}} instance that manages the {{agents}} using that remote output has connectivity to the remote cluster.
```
